Add SSL/TLS articles to conceptual docs (#32194)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/extensions/sslstream-troubleshooting.md

---
title: Troubleshoot SslStream authentication issues

> description: Learn how to troubleshoot and investigate issues when performing authentication with SslStream in .NET

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to troubleshoot and investigate issues when performing authentication with SslStream in .NET.
```

author: rzikm
ms.author: radekzikmund

> ms.date: 10/25/2022

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.date: 1/9/2023
```

---

> # Troubleshoot SslStream authentication issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Troubleshoot `SslStream` authentication issues
```

> This article presents the most frequent authentication issues when using <xref:System.Net.Security.SslStream> Cryptography and Security related functionalities in .NET are implemented by interop with either the Operating System API (such as Schannel on Windows) or low level system libraries (like OpenSSL on Linux). The behavior of .NET application, including exception messages and error codes may therefore change depending on which platform it is run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article presents the most frequent authentication issues when using <xref:System.Net.Security.SslStream> cryptography- and security-related functionalities in .NET are implemented by interop with either the OS API (such as Schannel on Windows) or low-level system libraries (like OpenSSL on Linux). The behavior of .NET application, including exception messages and error codes may therefore change depending on which platform it is run.
```

> Some issues may be therefore more easily investigated and troubleshooted by observing the actual  messages exchanged over the wire using tools such as WireShark or `tcpdump`. These tools can be used to inspect the `ClientHello`, `ServerHello` and other messages for advertised supported TLS versions, allowed and negotiated cipher suites and the certificates exchanged for authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some issues may be easier to investigate and troubleshoot by observing the actual messages exchanged over the wire using tools such as [Wireshark](https://www.wireshark.org) or [tcpdump](https://www.tcpdump.org). These tools can be used to inspect the `ClientHello`, `ServerHello`, and other messages for advertised supported TLS versions allowed and negotiated cipher suites and the certificates exchanged for authentication.
```

> ## Intermediate Certificates are not sent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Intermediate certificates are not sent
```

> During the TLS handshake, the server (and client too, if client authentication is requested) sends its certificate to prove its identity to the client. In order to validate the authenticity of the certificate, a chain of certificates needs to be built and verified. The root of the chain must be one of the trusted Root Certificate Authority (CA), certificate of which is stored in the machine certificate store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the TLS handshake, the server (and the client too, if client authentication is requested) sends its certificate to prove its identity to the client. In order to validate the authenticity of the certificate, a chain of certificates needs to be built and verified. The root of the chain must be one of the trusted root certificate authority (CA), the certificate of which is stored in the machine certificate store.
```

> If the peers certificate has not been issued by one of the trusted CAs an intermediate CA certificate is necessary to build the certificate chain. However, if the intermediate certificate is not available, it is not possible to validate the certificate and the TLS handshake may fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the peer certificate hasn't been issued by one of the trusted CAs an intermediate CA certificate is necessary to build the certificate chain. However, if the intermediate certificate isn't available, it isn't possible to validate the certificate and the TLS handshake may fail.
```

This issue is most frequently encountered on Windows. Even though application provided intermediate certificates via the authentication options, they will not be sent to the peer unless they are are stored in the Windows certificate store. This limitation is due to fact that the actual TLS handshake occurs outside of the application process.

For server applications, it is possible to pass an <xref:System.Net.Security.SslStreamCertificateContext> as <xref:System.Net.Security.SslServerAuthenticationOptions.ServerCertificateContext?displayProperty=nameWithType>. During construction of the <xref:System.Net.Security.SslStreamCertificateContext> instance, you can pass additional intermediate certificates and these will be temporarily added into the certificate store.

Unfortunately, for client application the only solution is to add the certificates to the certificate store manually.

## Handshake failed with ephemeral keys

> On Windows, you may encounter error message `(0x8009030E): No credentials are available in the security package` when attempting to use certificates with ephemeral keys. This behavior is due to bug in the underlying OS API (Schannel). More relevant info and workarounds can be found on the associated [GitHub issue](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/23749).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Windows, you may encounter the `(0x8009030E): No credentials are available in the security package` error message when attempting to use certificates with ephemeral keys. This behavior is due to a bug in the underlying OS API (Schannel). More relevant info and workarounds can be found on the associated [GitHub issue](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/23749).
```
